Accessing Files:-

Basic permissions:
1. Owner permissions: A user is the owner of the file. The owner's permissions determine what actions the
   owner of the file can perform on the file.
2. Group permissions: The group's permission determine what actions a user, who is a member of
   the group that a file belongs to, can perform on the file.
3. Other permissions: The permissions for others indicate what action all other users can perform 
   on the file.

Permissions:

Directory in your Linux system :
     Directory access modes are listed and organized in the same manner as any other file. There are a few differences that need to be mentioned −

1.Read:- This permission gives you the authority to open and read a file. Read permission on a directory gives you the ability to lists it’s content.
2.Write: - The write permission gives you the authority to modify the contents of a file. The write permission on a directory gives you the authority to add,
remove and rename files stored in the directory. You will beable to modify the file contents. But you will not beable to rename, move or remove the file from the 
directory.
3.Execute: - In Linux, you cannot run a program unless the execute permission is set. If the execute permission is not set, you might still be able to
see/modify the program code (provided read & write permissions are set), but not run it.Each permission has a numeric value associated with it.
 Read permission = r (4)
 Write permission = w (2)
 Execute permission = x (1)
 No permission = -
 Execute + write permission: 1 + 2 = 3:  -wx
 Read + execute permission: 4 + 1 = 5:   r-x
 Read + write permission: 4 + 2 = 6:   rw-
 Read + write + execute permissions: 4 (read) + 
 2 (write) + 1 (execute) = 7:  rwx

Two commands are available to change the owner and the group of files −
1.chown command: chown − The chown command stands for
"change owner" and is used to change the owner of a 
file.
chown command to change owner and group assignments, 
the sytax is: chown owner: group filename
So to change the owner of the file to user and group
to family you enter
chown user: family file.
2.chmod command:
chmod command allows you to change the permissions on
a file using either a symbolic or a numeric mode.
Syntax: $chmode g=r filename
